All right.
It's time for an exercise and I think this is going to be fun.
I want to use what we've learned up until now to build a translator.
Let's say somebody gives you a massive text file.
I mean in our case this is gonna be the text file but you can grab any text file that you want.
It doesn't have to be a text file.
It can be anything.
It could be a PI file.
It could be just a word document and type in a bunch of sentences in here whatever you want.
And just save it.
In my case I just have this now.
Somebody just told you hey I want you to translate this into let's say Japanese based on what you just
learned about modules and files in Python.
Can you build a tool that allows us to run a command through that file read it and then translated into
Japanese.
Now if you really want to get challenged you can pause the video and try it out or if you want a hint
what module or library to use.
Well then keep watching because I'm going to show you the recommended package to use OK.
So what I actually did was I googled Python off line translate using the PI by index.
Now I wanted an off line translation service because if you look there's something like google translation
that you can do.
But what that does is actually make a call to the Google servers to do google translate for you.
And that gets pretty complicated when we talk about API as an API keys.
Something that we're going to worry about later on in the course.
I wanted something off line so I can download the translation service off line and just be able to use
it right here.
So the one that I found was as I was Googling I think it was called this one yeah.
So this is just the translation service it looks like it has some stars and forks on get hops.
I always like that.
I always like checking out the repository.
So translate python.
Everything looks good.
You can read about the documentation here hasn't been updated in two years really but you know what.
It's it's not that bad.
L do the job.
So using this package you can try and read through the documentation and see if he can figure out how
to solve this problem of translating that file into Japanese.
You can puzzle video here.
Give it a go.
Otherwise I'm going to provide the answer.
Now the first thing I'm going to do is before I even install this I want to make sure I can read this
file.
So once again I'm going to say try and I'll have a file with open.
We'll see where the file is.
Let's say else we have the test file right in here so we can just do dot slash and say test dot text
and then I'll say as my
well that the mode as read for now because we just want to read the file.
But at least this way we're being explicit and we're saying hey this is exactly what we want to do.
And then finally I'll just for now print my file just to know that it's working and we'll add some exceptions
in here.
It's except not exception.
And we can just let's say do file not found error say as E and we'll just for fun say here print check
your file path.
Sally and leave it at that.
If I run this code let's say Python 3 script dot Pi.
All right.
I have my name is Andre awesome let's install the package.
So over here I can see that I have to install translate.
That's what the package is called.
Now I'll use Pip 3 in my case to make sure that I'm using the python version 3 and say install translate.
Now I've actually done this before just because while I tested this out beforehand so it's already installed
so let's clear that out and read about how we can use this package so you can see here the usage.
So I can use it from the command line.
Okay.
That's that's interesting.
But I want to use it as a module.
Okay.
Here you go.
Use as a Python module.
So it shows you exactly what to do.
So we import it first.
So let's do that.
I'm going to import this library.
All right.
So now we have the translator and we can use a translator like this all right.
So we have the translator.
So we create the translator class and we want to say to what language.
All right what languages are available.
Let's go to the read the docs here for documentation and see if they have Japanese in here.
Let's see.
Search docs Japanese All right.
That doesn't help us.
Let's look at overview.
And by the way I'm showing you the thought process that I usually have when I look through things because
sometimes people show you what the answer is without showing you the process or hopefully this is useful.
OK.
So I'm looking through here.
It doesn't look like they're providing a list of of languages although I see it here available languages.
It looks like it's we using this wikipedia page as a reference and oh yeah these are the short terms
for the languages that it's using.
All right.
So
based on this it looks like this is the standard that they're using but actually while reading the documentation
I see that this is there's a J A I'm assuming this is Japanese.
So let's do that.
I'm going to say J.
A.
All right.
And then let's see go back to the documentation here
let's look at overview.
Let's go back actually
OK.
So once I've created the translator I've given it the language all we need to do is say translator dot
translate and give it what we want to translate.
OK.
Nice and easy.
So in here because my file that I read is going to give us the output that we saw.
I'm going to say text equals my file.
I read and simply do the translation equals to.
What was it again.
It was translator translate so let's just copy that
so translator translate and we want to give it the text.
So let's see that.
That's what I wanted to do was to text.
All right.
So if everything works hopefully it does maybe it doesn't the first time around let's give it a go.
If I run Python 3 script up by
well we definitely forgot to print here.
Looks like we're not getting any errors which is good.
So let's do a print Translation
Let's run this again.
Look at that.
Well that's you know now Iowa unloaded.
Now go ahead.
This by the way I feel like I've been talking a lot and you haven't really talked back to me.
But let's get to know each other.
Actually I learned Japanese before I even learned English.
Fun fact about me.
All right let's get back to the topic at hand.
This is working this is actually pretty cool.
Let's finalize this by actually converting this file to a translated version so I'm going to say I'm
going to read this file and once I'm done with this translation I'm going to with open I'm going to
create new file.
Call it let's say test dash J.
For Japanese dot text the mode is going to be to write and I'm going to say as my file and in here I'm
going to simply say or let's do my file too.
So it's not a named conflict and say simply let's make this a little bit bigger just so you can see
and in here we'll just say my file to dot right and write the translation.
All right let's see if this works.
I'm going to run it again
OK.
Now if we go to our desktop there's a test dot J text and look at that.
We have a translated file in Japanese.
Take my car.
My name should be in cut the corner.
But hey this.
This still works pretty cool right.
Hopefully you got this far if you didn't.
You see the power of reading and writing files and also using libraries to do different things to your
data.
Very very cool.
Let's take a break and I'll see you in the next section.